CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contribution Guidelines

Thank you for considering contributing to the Solana Program Examples repository. We greatly appreciate your interest and efforts in helping us improve and expand this valuable resource for the Solana developer community.

We believe that a welcoming and inclusive environment fosters collaboration and encourages participation from developers of all backgrounds and skill levels.

To ensure a smooth and effective contribution process, please take a moment to review and follow the guidelines outlined below.

## How to Contribute

We welcome contributions in the form of code, documentation, bug reports, feature requests, and other forms of feedback. Here are some ways you can contribute:

- **Code Contributions:** You can contribute code examples in Rust, Python, or Solidity that demonstrate various Solana program functionalities. You can also contribute improvements to existing examples, such as bug fixes, optimizations, or additional features.

- **Bug Reports, Ideas or Feedback:** If you encounter any issues or have ideas for new examples, please submit a bug report or feature request. Your feedback is valuable and helps us improve the quality and relevance of the examples.

## General coding and writing guidelines

Please follow the [Contributing and Style Guide from the Developer Content Repo](https://github.com/solana-foundation/developer-content/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md). 

Specifically for code in this repo:

1. Use pnpm as the default package manager for the project. You can [install pnpm by following the instructions](https://pnpm.io/installation). Commit `pnpm-lock.yaml` to the repository.

2. Anchor programs should be in directory `anchor`, programs written for Solana Native should be in directory `native`, TypeScript in `posidon` and Python in `seahorse.

3. Tests for Solana native and Anchor programs should be written with [ts-mocha](https://github.com/piotrwitek/ts-mocha).

4. Tests for solana native programs should be written with [solana-bankrun](https://kevinheavey.github.io/solana-bankrun)

5. For Solana native programs ensure adding these mandatory pnpm run scripts to your `package.json`. file for successful ci/cd builds:

```json
"scripts": {
  "test": "pnpm ts-mocha -p ./tests/tsconfig.test.json -t 1000000 ./tests/realloc.test.ts",
  "build-and-test": "cargo build-sbf --manifest-path=./program/Cargo.toml --sbf-out-dir=./tests/fixtures && pnpm test",
  "build": "cargo build-sbf --manifest-path=./program/Cargo.toml --sbf-out-dir=./program/target/so",
  "deploy": "solana program deploy ./program/target/so/program.so"
},
```

6. Test command for anchor should execute `pnpm test` instead of `yarn run test` for anchor programs. Replace `yarn` with `pnpm` in `[script]` table inside [Anchor.toml file.](https://www.anchor-lang.com/docs/manifest#scripts-required-for-testing)

7. TypeScript, JavaScript and JSON files are formatted and linted using
   [Biome](https://biomejs.dev/). Execute the following command to format and lint your code at the root of this project before submitting a pull request:

8. Some projects can be ignored from the building and testing process by adding the project name to the `.ghaignore` file.
When removing or updating an example, please ensure that the example is removed from the `.ghaignore` file
and there's a change in that example's directory.

```bash
pnpm check:fix
```

## Code of Conduct

We are committed to providing a friendly, safe, and welcoming environment for all contributors, regardless of their background, experience level, or personal characteristics. As a contributor, you are expected to:

Be respectful and inclusive in your interactions with others.
Refrain from engaging in any form of harassment, discrimination, or offensive behavior. Be open to constructive feedback and be willing to learn from others.
Help create a positive and supportive community where everyone feels valued and respected.

If you encounter any behavior that violates our code of conduct, please report it to the project maintainers immediately.

Commit message:

feat: Introduce Steel framework in program-examples (#128)
* add steel framework

* add steel ci

* add steel in workspace

* fix workspace issue

* fix rust fmt error

* added steel in Contributing.md

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contribution Guidelines

Thank you for considering contributing to the Solana Program Examples repository. We greatly appreciate your interest and efforts in helping us improve and expand this valuable resource for the Solana developer community.

We believe that a welcoming and inclusive environment fosters collaboration and encourages participation from developers of all backgrounds and skill levels.

To ensure a smooth and effective contribution process, please take a moment to review and follow the guidelines outlined below.

## How to Contribute

We welcome contributions in the form of code, documentation, bug reports, feature requests, and other forms of feedback. Here are some ways you can contribute:

- **Code Contributions:** You can contribute code examples in Rust, Python, or Solidity that demonstrate various Solana program functionalities. You can also contribute improvements to existing examples, such as bug fixes, optimizations, or additional features.

- **Bug Reports, Ideas or Feedback:** If you encounter any issues or have ideas for new examples, please submit a bug report or feature request. Your feedback is valuable and helps us improve the quality and relevance of the examples.

## General coding and writing guidelines

Please follow the [Contributing and Style Guide from the Developer Content Repo](https://github.com/solana-foundation/developer-content/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md). 

Specifically for code in this repo:

1. Use pnpm as the default package manager for the project. You can [install pnpm by following the instructions](https://pnpm.io/installation). Commit `pnpm-lock.yaml` to the repository.

2. Anchor programs should be in directory `anchor`, programs written for Solana Native should be in directory `native`, TypeScript in `posidon` and Python in `seahorse.

3. Tests for Solana native, Steel and Anchor programs should be written with [ts-mocha](https://github.com/piotrwitek/ts-mocha).

4. Tests for solana native programs and steel framework programs should be written with [solana-bankrun](https://kevinheavey.github.io/solana-bankrun)

5. For Solana native programs and Steel framework programs ensure adding these mandatory pnpm run scripts to your `package.json`. file for successful ci/cd builds:

```json
"scripts": {
  "test": "pnpm ts-mocha -p ./tests/tsconfig.test.json -t 1000000 ./tests/realloc.test.ts",
  "build-and-test": "cargo build-sbf --manifest-path=./program/Cargo.toml --sbf-out-dir=./tests/fixtures && pnpm test",
  "build": "cargo build-sbf --manifest-path=./program/Cargo.toml --sbf-out-dir=./program/target/so",
  "deploy": "solana program deploy ./program/target/so/program.so"
},
```

6. Test command for anchor should execute `pnpm test` instead of `yarn run test` for anchor programs. Replace `yarn` with `pnpm` in `[script]` table inside [Anchor.toml file.](https://www.anchor-lang.com/docs/manifest#scripts-required-for-testing)

7. TypeScript, JavaScript and JSON files are formatted and linted using
   [Biome](https://biomejs.dev/). Execute the following command to format and lint your code at the root of this project before submitting a pull request:

8. Some projects can be ignored from the building and testing process by adding the project name to the `.ghaignore` file.
When removing or updating an example, please ensure that the example is removed from the `.ghaignore` file
and there's a change in that example's directory.

```bash
pnpm check:fix
```

## Code of Conduct

We are committed to providing a friendly, safe, and welcoming environment for all contributors, regardless of their background, experience level, or personal characteristics. As a contributor, you are expected to:

Be respectful and inclusive in your interactions with others.
Refrain from engaging in any form of harassment, discrimination, or offensive behavior. Be open to constructive feedback and be willing to learn from others.
Help create a positive and supportive community where everyone feels valued and respected.

If you encounter any behavior that violates our code of conduct, please report it to the project maintainers immediately.
